And yeah, I mean,
one of the most depressing lessons I got from 2020 is at almost,
it seems like in my opinion,
that we overlearn the lesson of our success and not of our failures,
for example,
like we have this narrative in our head that we always have the right person at
the right time during crisis. And in, so some cases, it was true.
We didn't deserve Lincoln. We didn't deserve FDR. We didn't deserve, um,
we didn't deserve a lot of presidents at times of crisis, but then you're like,
okay, George W. Bush nine 11, that was terrible. Um, reconstruction,
Andrew Johnson, awful. Right?
Like we had several periods in our history where the crisis was there.
They, they, they were called and they did not show up. And I really,
it hadn't happened in my lifetime except for nine 11.
And even then you could kind of see that as an opportunity for somebody like
Obama to come in and fix it, but then he didn't do it.
And then Trump didn't do it. And you real lies.
I feel like our politics are most analogous to like the
1910s, like all in terms of the Giled age, in terms of that,
remember there's that long period of presence between, um,
between like Lincoln and Teddy Roosevelt. We were like, wait,
like who's president, like mm-hmm <affirmative> or,
or even in even tr was like an exception where you'll have like Calvin cool,
who like silent.
Cow. So we're living through that grow Cleveland.
That's kind of how I, if I think of us within history,
I feel like we're in one of those times, we're just waiting. It feels.
Really important to us right now. Like,
this is the most important moment of history, but it might be the, could just.
Be a blip, right. 20 through year blip.
Like when you think about who was president between 1890 and 19 before, I mean,
yeah. Between like 1888 and 1910,
like, nobody really thinks about that period of America, but like,
that was an entire lifetime for people, right? Like what did they,
how did they feel about the country that they were in? That's hilarious.
That's how I kind of think of about where we are now. It's funny to think.
I mean, I don't wanna minimize it, but like,
we haven't really gone through a world war II style crisis. So like
say that there is a crisis in like several decades of that level,
right? Existential risks. Mm-hmm <affirmative> to a large portion of the world,
then what will be remembered is world war II,
maybe a little bit about Vietnam and then whatever that crisis is.
And this whole period that we see as dramatic, even coronavirus, even nine 11,
even nine 11, uh it's like,
cuz you can look at how many people died and all those kinds of things,
all the drama around the war on terror and all those kinds of things you maybe
Obama will be remembered for being the first African American president,
but then like that's about it. That's yeah. That's fascinating to think about,
oh man, even Trump will be like, oh, okay, cool. He was that guy.
Yeah. Like maybe he be remembered as the first, uh,
celebrity. I mean Reagan was already a governor. Yeah. Right? Yeah. So,
so like the first apolitical celebrity, that was a,
so maybe if there's more celebrities in the future,
they'll say that Trump was the first person and pave the,
the way for celebrities to win. Oh man. Yeah. And uh, yeah,
I still, I still hold that this, this era will probably remembered
the, you know, people say, I talk about Elon way too much,
but <laugh> but the reality is like,
there's not many people that are doing the kind of things he's doing is why I
talk, talk about is I think this era it's not necessarily Elon SpaceX,
but this era will be remembered by the new,
the like of the space exploration of uh,
the commercial of companies getting into space, exploration of space travel.
And perhaps
perhaps like artificial intelligence around social media,
all those kinds of things. This might be remembered for that. But every,
all the political bickering, all of that nonsense that might, we might,
might be very well forgotten.
One way to think about it is that the internet is so young. Yeah.
I think about it. That's right. Um, with, so Jeff Jarvis, he's a media scholar.
I respect, he's a, not the only person to say this, but many others have,
which is that, look, this is kind of like the printing press.
There was a whole 30 years war because of the printing press. Yeah.
It took a long time for to sort out.
I think that's where we're at with the internet. Like at a certain level,
it disrupts everything and that's a good thing. It can be very tumultuous.
Um, I never felt like I was living through until coronavirus. Like, you know,
like until we were all locked down, I was like,
I'm living through history like this,
it there's this very overused cliche in DC where every com staffer wants you to
think that what their boss just did is history.
And I've always been like this isn't history, this isn't like stupid bill,
you know, whatever. But like that was the first time I was like,
this is history like this.
Yeah. Right here. Well, I was hoping, uh,
tragedy aside that this,
I wish the primaries happened during coronavirus so that we right.
Because like, then we can see so, okay.
Here's a bunch of people facing crisis and it's an opportunity for leader to
step up. Like I still believe the optimistic view is, uh,
the game theory of like influencers will always be defeated by
actual great leaders. So like maybe the great leaders are rare,
but I think they're sufficiently out there that they will step up,
especially in the moments of crisis mm-hmm <affirmative> and coronavirus is,
is obviously a crisis. What are like, you know, mass manufacturer of tests,
uh, all, all kinds of infrastructure building that you could have done in 2020.
There's so many possibilities for just like bold action. It makes me sad.
Uh, none of that,
even just forget actually doing the action advocating for it. Yeah.
Right. Just saying like this, we need, we need to do this. And none of that,
like the speeches that Biden made,
I don't even remember a single speech that Biden made because there's zero bold.
I mean, there strategy was to be quiet and let Donald Trump, uh,
polarize the electorate P polarize, electorate, and hope that results in,
in, uh, them winning, uh,
because of the high unemployment numbers and all those kinds of things,
as opposed to like, let's go big, let's go with a big speech.
Let's you know that, uh, yeah.
It's a lost a lost opportunity in some sense,